By Victor Nwachukwu The Comptroller of the  Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) in Imo, Mrs Nkechi Ezugwu, has described sports as  critical to the physical and mental alertness of the  men and officers in the Service. Ezugwu said this while inaugurating a newly constructed Beach Volleyball Court at the Command’s headquarters in Owerri.   She said that given the nature of the Agency’s job, the Command’s men and officers would need to unwind from time to time adding that she planned to construct more sports facilities for the benefit of the officers. Ezugwu, who is also the Vice-President of the Nigeria Volleyball Federation, thanked the Federal Comptroller of Works in Imo, Engr Dania Dennis, for approving the site for the construction of the facility and promised to ensure its maintenance.   She urged officers of the command to make good use of the facility so as to keep fit for optimal performance. “It is often said that all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. “It is with against this backdrop that we decided to establish a standard court for officers and men as well as all lovers of volleyball in Owerri metropolis.   “ It is a known fact that sports has in no small measure taken people to places of prominence and affluence around the globe. It is no gain saying that this court will raise men and women to affluence “, she said. Speaking, the President, Nigeria Volleyball Federation, Mr Musa Nimrod, urged the officers and men to utilize the Court to keep fit for more effective performance of their duties.   He  thanked the Imo Government for its continued commitment to sports development and pledged the Federation’s readiness to partner the state for the development of volleyball. Also speaking, the Chairperson, Association of Heads of Federal Establishments in Imo, Mrs Chisara Egwim-Chima, thanked Ezugwu for constructing the Court and called on staff members of federal establishments using the secretariat to take advantage of the provision.    “Our jobs are majorly sedentary and that is why we need regular exercise. With the provision of this Court, we can now keep fit and maximize our potentials,” she said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that a highlight of the event was the presentation of three balls and other volleyball equipment to Ezugwu by Nimrod. Also, the Heartland Beach Volleyball Team, Owerri, played a novelty  match to inaugurate the facility.   NAN also reports that the event was attended by Gov. Hope Uzodimma of Imo, represented by his Chief of Protocol, Mr Bright Nwelue;  the Imo Commissioner for Sports, Mr Emeka Okonkwo represented by Mr Chinedu Umeh and Heads of military and paramilitary agencies in the state. (NAN)