…Studying cases of presidential election policing By Chimezie Godfrey The Police Service Commission (PSC) has called for improved Police performance in the forthcoming governorship and state assembly elections. The Commission made this known in a statement signed by its Head of Press and Public Relations, Ikechukwu Ani made available to Newsdiaryonline on Monday in Abuja.   Ani stated,”The Police Service Commission is currently studying cases of Police conduct arising from the February 25th Presidential and National Assembly elections. “The Commission’s Staff Monitors who were deployed to the 36 States of the Federation and Federal Capital Territory Abuja have since turned in their reports.   “The Commission is also demanding improved performance from Police Officers on election duties during this Saturday’s Governorship and House of Assembly elections.” Ani said the Commission was also expecting reports from the Management of the Nigeria Police Force on proven cases of misconduct for Commission’s consideration.   “The Commission says Police Officers on election duties should restrict themselves to ensuring that voters are allowed to discharge their civic responsibility and that their votes are protected. “It demands that the Police in collaboration with sister security Agencies must ensure the votes of Nigerians in this Saturday’s Governorship and House of Assembly elections count.   “The Commission warns that the Police must not encourage the subversion of the people’s will at the Polling and collating units and must not show any sign of partisanship whatsoever,” he said. Acting Chairman of the Commission, Justice Clara Bata Ogunbiyi has promised that better and improved performance from Police will attract reward from the Commission and called on Police Officers on election duty this Saturday to go all out and make the nation proud.   Justice Ogunbiyi said the 2023 elections holds great promise for united and prosperous nation. She prayed that God should guide and protect the Commission’s Monitors, security Agencies and Nigerian voters during Saturday’s elections.