By Ibironke Ariyo The  Chairman, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) retired Brig. Gen. Buba Marwa has congratulated the President-Elect, Bola Tinubu, saying his victory in the February 25th presidential election was well-deserved.  Marwa made this known in his congratulatory letter to Tinubu on Wednesday, hours after the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC), declared him winner. ”It is with great delight that I write to celebrate your electoral victory in the 2023 Presidential Election, from which you emerged as the President-Elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.  ”It is a victory well-deserved and one built on years of focus, hard work, doggedness and the political sagacity of a democrat whose credential has been evident since the heyday of NADECO. “We look forward to the implementation of your visions for a new Nigeria as outlined in your manifesto during the campaign.   “Lagos, as a microcosm of Nigeria, is a testament to your capability to transform even the most challenging of situations. ” Your pragmatism since the days of your governorship in Lagos will now be called to greater challenges that Nigeria portrays.  “Your agenda, as outlined in your policy document, offers hope and assured future. “And as we turn our attention from electioneering, Nigerians will be counting on you to bring your magic touch to bear and bring about a great improvement in the fortune of our great country. I do not doubt that you will meet the expectations of all, “he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu declared Tinubu the winner at exactly 4:10 a.m on Wednesday in Abuja. The former Lagos state governor polled a total votes of 8,794,726 to defeat his closest rival and the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar who scored 6,984,520 votes, and Peter Obi of Labour party who polled 6,101,533 votes. The presidential candidate of New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), Rabiu Kwankwaso came a distant fourth with the total votes of 1,496,687 votes, among others. (NAN)