By Chimezie Godfrey President Muhammadu Buhari Monday in Yola, Adamawa State, called on voters to shun sentiments, and make history by electing the first female Governor in the country in 2023, Sen. Aisha Dahiru Ahmed-Binani, saying her track record of dedication to duty and service will improve the livelihood of citizens. The President, who spoke at the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential and Gubernatorial Flag-off of campaigns in Adamawa State, told voters that Sen. Binani had consistently worked for the welfare of the State and indigenes over many years, and entrusting her with the Office of the Governor would further strengthen her to reposition the State for greatness.   “Let me remind you of the good fortune that is awaiting your State in 2023 after returning the APC to power at the federal level and electing the party’s candidate as your incoming governor. “You have been given the opportunity to set a record in the history of Nigeria and the annals of democracy and politics in our country by electing the first ever female chief executive of a state in Nigeria. You cannot afford that such a significant opportunity would slip through your fingers. “I am, therefore, calling on all the men, women and youth of Adamawa State, the northeast and indeed the entire country, to support the candidature of Senator Aisha Binani and ensure her victory in March, 2023,’’ he said.   President Buhari urged the electorate to vote for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Kashim Shettima as President and Vice President in the forthcoming elections, and candidates of the APC for Senate, House of Representatives and House of Assembly. “I am delighted to be here today in Yola, Adamawa State, to be part of the campaign of our candidates for different offices in the country, starting from presidential, to gubernatorial, national and state assemblies. It is All Progressives Congress (APC) from top to bottom.   “APC for President! APC for Governor! APC for Senate! APC for House of Representatives! APC for Assembly Members!,’’ the President noted. President Buhari said the APC had a vision of making Adamawa State more peaceful, progressive and prosperous. “Your contributions in Adamawa State to our national development can be attested to by your output in agriculture, fishery, livestock, industry, manufacturing, commerce, mining, among others.   “Your achievements in the areas of education have made us proud and given us immense joy and satisfaction. Adamawa people are progressive in nature, and it is time to prove it once again. “Our vision for Adamawa as a peaceful, progressive and prosperous state is strong and enduring. With your perseverance and determination, the All Progressives Congress (APC) will make Adamawa a model state in all areas of endeavour,’’ he stated.   The President urged youths in the state and country to pursue values that will bring honor to their families and the country, advising that Nigeria’s image could only be improved by the citizens. “Let me now speak to the youths of our country, and Adamawa State particularly. I want you to know that you mean so much to us. Please remain loyal and patriotic citizens, learn from your elders and behave responsibly at all times.   “There can be no other place better than this country that promises so much to us and beckons us to greater prosperity. “I want you to remain true to our ideals of decency, respect and accountability. You should bear your responsibilities seriously and acquit yourself well in all that you are called on to do.   “You should all come out and vote in the forthcoming elections, exercise your franchise responsibly and do not allow yourselves to be misled by vain sentiments and idle promises. “Let me remind you and the entire people of Nigeria that the eyes of the world will be on you come February and March, 2023. Therefore do not give in to temptation and allow yourselves to be manipulated,’’ he added.   The President advised the youths to remain loyal to the APC by sensitizing on the gains of the party, and voting for its candidates at various levels. “I wish specially to thank you for reposing your trust in me and giving me your support during the last two presidential elections. “I want you to continue with this spirit and remain loyal to our party the APC. I want you to support our candidates at all levels in the state and federal elections. You can trust Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Jagaban of Borgu, our party’s flag-bearer and presidential candidate, together with his running mate, Senator Kashim Shettima.   “I want you to vote for them massively, retain the party in power at the centre, and also return Adamawa to the rank of the progressives. “I want you to wholeheartedly embrace the message of “RENEWED HOPE” on which our candidates and party are campaigning,’’ the President said. In his remarks, the APC National Chairman, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu called on voters to elect Asiwaju Tinubu for President, and Sen. Binani for Governor of Adamawa State.   Adamu assured the large gathering of party supporters at the Muhammadu Buhari Square that both candidates had been tested with responsibilities at various levels of governance, and would work together for the benefit of the people. Presidential Candidate of the APC, Asiwaju Tinubu thanked the President for leading the country with integrity, and setting new standards in development projects. “Nigeria is blessed. We have integrity in President Buhari. Whatever damage the Poverty Development Party, PDP, have done, we will replace it with joy, prosperity, happiness and employment for our people.   “We will get you engaged properly. We will pay attention to your needs. Vote Binani for governor of the state, and when we are elected, we will work together to provide good water, education, health and end killings and kidnapping,” he said. Binani pleaded with the First Lady, Aisha Buhari, APC stalwart, Nuhu Ribadu and member of House of Representative, Abdulrazak Namdas to join hands with her in ensuring success at the polls, and lifting the state to greater heights.   Former Governor of Adamawa State, Murtala Nyako, urged the electorates to vote for Asiwaju Tinubu for President, and Binani for Governor of the state, noting that Tinubu and his Vice Presidential candidate, Kashim Shettima, had already set precedence of good leadership as former governors. He said Binani would build on past achievements in the state, and correct anomalies in leadership and development, especially in placing the welfare of the people first and ensuring inclusive governance.