By Chijioke Okoronkwo The Federal Executive Council(FEC) has approved the sum of N1.4 billion for the procurement of  vehicles for the hydro-carbon pollution remediation project in Ogoniland, Rivers. Minister of Environment, Mohammed Abdullahi, briefed State House correspondents after the FEC meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.   Abdullahi said that the vehicles were required for effective supervision of the projects at polluted sites. “Today, on behalf of the Ministry of Environment, I presented a memo to the council requesting for approval to procure some project vehicles for the hydro-carbon pollution remediation project. “You recall that late last year December, the council approved some projects to do with power for Ogoni people and remediation of some polluted sites.   “It was approved in view of this desire to ensure effective supervision of this project, particularly in the five water schemes. “And the upcoming 16 water schemes and the proposed shoreline remediation and also the proposed Centre of Excellence to be built within Ogoniland and in view of the fact we are going to inspect on regular basis experts from outside the country, there is a need to provide project vehicles so that they can effectively inspect, supervise and monitor the remediation exercise.   “ So, FEC today approves the sum of N1.4 billion only in favour of Messrs Mujaf Automobile Nigeria Ltd to provide 31 vehicles for the project.’’ According to the minister, the vehicles include one 18-seater Toyota Hiace Bus, one 30-seater Toyota Coaster Bus– all supposed to be 2022 models. He also listed  11 Toyota Hilux Double Cabin Four-wheel Drive–2022 model, diesel engine,  15 Toyota, double cabin four wheel drive, petrol engine–2022 model, one Toyota Land Cruiser Twin Turbo– 2022 model and two units of Toyota Land Cruiser V6 Prado..   “So, all in all about 31 vehicles were approved for the hydro carbon pollution remediation project to ensure effective supervision of the project, particular the remediation project,  essentially, this is what we presented and it was approved by FEC,’’ he said. (NAN)