Alaba-Olusola Oke A chieftain of the  APC, Dr Abiola Oshodi, says  victory for the party’s presidential candidate, Sen. Bola Tinubu in the presidential election will speed up a lot of developmental projects in Ondo State.  Oshodi, who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria on Thursday  ( NAN) on the expected visit of Tinubu on Jan. 7 in Akure, stated that major developmental projects of the state would be met if APC emerged  in the Feb. 25 presidential election.  “  Bola Ahmed Tinubu is Ondo state and Ondo state is Bola Ahmed Tinubu , so his visit to Ondo state  is both historic and strategic. “The visit is strategic in the sense that Ondo state stands to gain a lot by virtue of Asiwaju’s presidency when actualised and  lots of developmental projects that can transform Ondo state will  be prioritised and given life.  “About  three of such projects come to mind , the development and exploration of the large bitumen deposit , the second largest in the world and only second to Canada must be given adequate attention under the Asiwaju presidency.  “The development of the seaport in Ondo south will place the state within the global economic view and unleash unprecedented developments in the state. “And lastly, the construction of the road network that leads to the Lekki-Ajah corridor of Lagos state from Ondo South will help accelerate the economic development of Ondo state. “ All the three major projects can be achieved under the Asiwaju presidency if Ondo state people vote him enmasse in the February 2023 presidential election, we stand to gain a lot,” he stated. Oshodi, a member of the APC Presidential Campaign Council, explained that the visit would be  historic and significant. “He is not here to campaign or beg us to vote for him. He will be  in the state to remind us of our civic responsibility that we should come out in large numbers come Feb. 25  to vote him and other APC candidates across the length and breath of the state . “This is so that we can be part of the history making states that will ensure that Tinubu emerges winner of the presidential election,” he stated. Oshodi, who is also a Media Director of the Tinubu Shettima Grassroots  Independent Campaign Council (TSGICC) in Ondo state, said that all major stakeholders within the APC state party structure and the Akeredolu led administration had been doing a lot behind to ensure the success of Tinubu’s campaign rally in  the state. According to him, TSGICC has been  mobilising from the polling units across the length and breath of the state and sensitising  people with campaign jingles , engagements on all the various forms of media and rolling out strategic information about the significance of the visit.  Oshodi described Tinubu as the best of the lot amongst those  that would be on the presidential ballot , adding that Tinubu remained  the only presidential candidate with vast experiences of being a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and  a two-term governor. “He is a successful one for that matter that continues till date to ensure that his protégés are in charge of Lagos  state, 15 years after he left office and thus ensure continuity of the blueprint that he designed for Lagos state. “He is the biggest investor in our democracy, haven  built his party from the ground up with control of just one state out of 36 and formed alliances with other progressives across the length and breath of Nigeria to form the APC that’s currently the ruling party since 2015. “ And much more importantly, Tinubu understands the current major challenges of Nigeria,  which is revenue challenge. “It was a similar problem that Lagos state  was immersed in pre-1999 and Tinubu  came with his financial engineering skill set that laid a solid financial foundation for the state  and upon which it  continues to grow in leaps and bounds “This amongst other great achievements Tinubu  will unleash and replicate at the national scene if he’s elected the president of Nigeria come Feb. 25,” he stated. The media director of TSGICC in the state said that Tinubu is known as one of the founding fathers of progressive politics in Nigeria, adding that Ondo state  must not be behind other progressive states. “When it’s time to take the roll call of which states made the impeding Tinubu’s victory possible, Ondo state must not be behind. “Historically,  the action group ( the progressive party of late  Chief Obafemi  Awolowo and Chief  Ajasin) was birthed in Owo, Ondo state in the time of old. ” God willing, Tinubu’s presidency will be birthed in Ondo state come Feb. 25,  starting with the success of the Jan. 7 presidential campaign,” he added.(NAN)