The Department of State Services (DSS) has arrested the mastermind of the recent bomb blast near the Palace of Ohinoyi of Ebiraland in Okene, Kogi State. Newsdiaryonline reports that the bomb explosion occurred the day President Muhammadu Buhari visited Okene to commission projects in the state. Peter Afunanya, Public Relations OfficerDepartment of State Services,National Headquarters, Abuja who confirmed the arrest of key suspects also made shocking revelations about the mastermind, identified as Abdulmumin Ibrahim Otaru (aka Abu Mikdad). Also arrested, according to Afunanya, was Saidu Suleiman, one of Otaru’s associates Afunanya also disclosed that “Otaru was a high commander of Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP)” who coordinated or was involved in several other attacks outlined by the DSS. The DSS statement reads: “The Department of State Services (DSS) wishes to inform the public that it has arrested the mastermind of the Vehicle-Borne Improvised Explosive Device (VBIED) attack which occurred on 29th December, 2022, near the Palace of the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland in Okene, Kogi State during the visit of the President to commission some projects. “The Service arrested Abdulmumin Ibrahim Otaru (aka Abu Mikdad) and one of his associates, Saidu SULEIMAN on 3rd January, 2023. “OTARU sustained a gunshot injury on his left foot while attempting to escape. He is currently receiving treatment at a health facility. “During investigations, it was ascertained that Otaru was a high commander of Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) and either coordinated or was involved in the following dastardly operations: “The 24th June, 2022 attack on Nigeria Police Area Command, Eika-Ohizenyi, Okehi LGA of Kogi State. A Police Inspector, Idris MUSA was killed and two (2) AK-47 rifles carted away in that attack; “The 5th July, 2022 attack on Kuje Medium Security Custodial Centre in Kuje Area Council of the FCT; and “5th August, 2022 attack on West African Ceramics Ltd (WACL) in Ajaokuta LGA, Kogi in which three (3) Indian expatriates were kidnapped. It would be recalled that five (5) persons including one (1) Indian, two (2) Policemen and two (2) drivers of the company were also killed in the attack. The kidnapped expatriates were released on 31st August, 2022. “Otaru operated terrorist cells in and around Kogi State. Similarly, he and his gang had staged several kidnap operations in Kogi and Ondo States. Meanwhile, the suspects are in custody and will be prosecuted accordingly, Afunanya said. “The Service reiterates its commitment to the safety of the nation. It assures to work assiduously with stakeholders including sister security agencies to tackle the menace of terrorism and other forms of criminality and threats to national security. It, therefore, calls on citizens to support it and other law enforcement organisations with relevant information and all the necessary cooperation required to achieve a peaceful country”, the DSS statement concluded.