By Cecilia Ijuo The Board of the Nigeria Customs Service has approved  appointment of three Assistant Comptrollers General (ACGs).  This is contained in a statement by  Superintendent of Customs, Mr Abdullahi Maiwada on behalf of Customs National Public Relations Officer, Mr Timi Bomodi on Wednesday in Abuja.  Maiwada said 1, 490 senior officers of general duty and support staff to various ranks were also promoted, among whom was the Customs Spokesperson, Mr Timi Bomodi.  A breakdown of the appointments according to Maiwada include ACG Greg Itotoh, ACG Festus Okun and ACG Shuaibu Ibrahim.  Some of the newly promoted comptrollers are Musa Omale, Zanna Chiroma, Stanley Nwankwo, Ajibola Odusanya, Paul Ekpenyong, Abubakar Umar, Maureen Ajuzieogu, MO Bewaji, among others,”he said.  He said 64 Deputy Comptrollers (DCs)  were promoted to Comptrollers of Customs (CCs), while 128 Assistant Comptrollers (ACs) were promoted  to Deputy Comptrollers (DCs).  He also said 89 Chief Superintendent of Customs (CSCs) were promoted to Assistant Comptrollers (ACs) and 220 Superintendents of Customs (SCs) were promoted to Chief Superintendents of Customs (CSCs).  Maiwada also said 107 Deputy Superintendents of Customs (DSCs) were promoted to Superintendents of Customs (SCs) while 302 Assistant Superintendents of Customs I (ASC I) were promoted  to Deputy Superintendents of Customs (DSCs).  He said 223 Assistant Superintendents of Customs II (ASC II) were promoted to Assistant Superintendents of Customs I (ASC I) and 357 Inspectors of Customs (ICs) were promoted to Assistant Superintendents of Customs II (ASC II).  Maiwada further said in a similar development, the management  of  the service had earlier approved the promotion of 1, 252 men within the ranks of inspectors and  customs assistant cadres.  According to him, the Comptroller General of Customs, retired Col. Hameed Ali,  congratulated the newly appointed and promoted officers.  He said Ali charged them to redouble their efforts in ensuring that the service achieved its goals.(NAN)