By Abbas Bamalli Gov. Aminu Masari of Katsina State has tasked carpenters in the state to be more creative in production to improve their business to attract more customers.  The governor, who tasked the carpenters during the Katsina interior and furniture expo held in the state, said by being more creative, it would make their products unique.  He said: ”Most people nowadays like unique products, therefore, by creating more furniture designs, it will generate more customers for them and the business will keep moving.  “This event was aimed at giving the carpenters the opportunity to showcase their products for the world to know that they can do better. “I want people to understand that this exhibition was done to withdraw the government’s involvement in this kind of thing.” Masari said.  According to him, the government has done its best by providing the necessary support to assist and encourage them to be more self-reliant. Masari said: “What the government should do was to show the people the right way, left for them to follow and make proper use of the opportunity.  “For instance, we have the market, but you only know your own, then we decided to expand it so that the whole world should know that at a particular market, this particular product is produced.” He advised the carpenters’ association on how to take the business to the next level, saying, ”there are a lot of opportunities even beyond the state’s boundaries.”  According to Masari, technology has made it easier for people to advertise their products online to attract customers from somewhere else. He further assured them that if the government of All Progressive Congress (APC) returned to power, definitely such programmes will continue even beyond where he has stopped. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that while going round to see the various products assembled, Masari commended the participants for their wonderful efforts. In his remarks, the Chairman,  Katsina Carpenters’  Association, Malam Kabir Isiyaku commended the governor for providing them with land to establish a capenters’ village. According to him, the unique gesture will continue to be appreciated by them and the people of the state. Isyaku added that one of the major areas the governor can be remembered after his tenure was the effort he made towards making the youths more self-reliant. (NAN)