Relief materials worth millions of naira have been donated to the victims of the November 18th 2022 fire disaster in Owan community, Ovia North East Local Government Area by the management of Okomu Oil Palm Company PLC.The fire incident occurred when a tanker carrying petroleum product fell in the community and went into flame destroying shops and buildings.The items presented include 100 Bags of Cement, 2 bags of 4 inches nails, 3 bags of 3 inches nails, one bag of 1.5 inches nails, 30 bundles of Zinc, 10 Iron doors, 70 pieces of ceiling board, and 165 pieces of different sizes of wood. Presenting the relief materials to the Odionwere of the community, the Managing Director, Okomu Oil Palm Company PLC, Dr. Graham Hefer said the gesture was in fulfillment of management’s promise to come to the aid of the victims of the fire disaster.Represented by the community liaison officer (CLO) in its extension 2 plantation, Mr. Bashiru Kadiri, Dr. Hefer said Okomu believes in good neighbour relations and are happy to assist her neighbouring communities when the need ariseHe said “I wish to on behalf of management of Okomu to present these building materials to assist the victims of the fire incident. During our last visit in December, we promised to assist victims of the fire disaster and this is the fulfillment of that promise”. “We hope that this gesture from us will be accepted by the community as our little way of helping to cushion the effect of the fire on the victim and help them get back to their feet”. The Okomu MD urged the leadership of the community to ensure that everyone affected by the fire incident benefits from the materials while praying that such disaster will not be experienced again in the community. Receiving the items on behalf of the victims, the Odionwere of the Owan community, Chief Michael Ifiabor thanked the management of Okomu Oil palm company for the gesture adding this has shown the company’s interest in the growth and development of its neighbouring communities. He further stated that they never expected this kind of love and support from any private company especially when it was Okomu response to their distress call that aided the putting out the fire, stressing that this has further endeared the company in the heart of the people and will strengthen the relationship between the company and members of the community. According to chief Ifiabor, “We were surprised when the materials arrived at our community because this was the least, we were expecting, I will make sure that the victims get the materials according to their needs and that is why I decided that they should be kept in a place where I can monitor them and know what is happening to them”. Some of the victims, including Mrs. Udaya Juliet, Mrs. Elere Aina and Friday Ileso while appreciating the Okomu management for the gesture said that since the incident happened, they have been squatting with neighbours they prayed that God should bless and protect the company. “We appreciate Okomu for the relief materials they brought, God will continue to bless and enrich you and your company as you have shown this gesture to us and you will receive double measures for what you have brought for us and we will have more love and commitment towards you and your company”. It would be recalled that the fire incident which would have caused a major disaster in the community was averted by men of the Okomu Oil Palm Company PLC fire service unit.