By Gabriel Agbeja  The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has predicted dust haze from Thursday to Saturday across the country.  NiMet’s weather outlook released on Wednesday in Abuja predicted moderate dust haze on Thursday with horizontal visibility range of 2km to 5km is expected overparts of the northern region.  It forecast prospect of slight dust haze over Yobe, Borno, Adamawa and Taraba during the forecast period. “Moderate dust haze with horizontal visibility ranges from 2km to 5km is anticipated over the North-Central and inland cities of the south throughout the forecast period.  “Hazy atmosphere with patches of clouds are expected over the coastal cities during the forecast period. “Mist or fog is also expected in the early morning over the coastal cities,” it said.  According to NiMet, slight dust haze is expected over the Northern region on Friday throughout the forecast period. It anticipated moderate dust haze over the North-Central and inland cities of the south during the forecast period.  The agency envisaged hazy atmosphere with patches of clouds over the coastal cities throughout the forecast period. It predicted mist or fog in the early morning over the coastal cities. “For Saturday, slight dust haze is expected over the North-central and the inland cities of the south throughout the forecast period.  “Hazy atmosphere with patches of clouds are anticipated over the coastal cities during the forecast period. “Mist or fog is also expected in the early morning over the coastal cities with potential impact,” it said NiMet advised the public to take necessary precautions due to dust particles presently in suspension over the atmosphere.  It advised Individuals with respiratory ailments to protect themselves as the current dusty weather condition is dangerous to their health.  “Night-time cold temperatures should be expected, hence warm clothing are advised for the little ones.  “All airline operators are advised to avail themselves of weather reports periodically from NiMet for effective planning of their operations,” it said.  (NAN)