A renowned Islamic media agency in Nigeria, Dpath To Jannah Media Hub has postponed her second edition of media seminar.   The seminar, which was earlier scheduled to take place on Saturday, March 11, 2023 will now hold on  Saturday, April 29, 2023 at Ibikunle Lawal College, Ile Ife, Osun State.   The media hub, stated this in a statement made available to newsmen by its director, Mr. Sodiq Lawal on Thursday. According to the statement, the decision for postponement was reached after extensive deliberations by the board of directors on Wednesday.   He regretted the inconvenience that having to rearrange their plans could cause for participants, partners, sponsors, stakeholders, as well as well-meaning people. “We regret the inconvenience that may arise from rescheduling your plans within short notice.  “We take this decision out of an abundance of caution, in cognizance of the political climate and peculiarity of the season at this time in our dear country Nigeria.” On Mon, Jan 16, 2023, 7:59 PM Lawal Sodiq <lawalsodiq915@gmail.com> wrote:  Media Hub To Hold 2nd Media Seminar, Award Ceremony For Students One of Nigeria’s leading Islamic media agencies, Dpath To Jannah Media Hub, has concluded all arrangements to hold her second edition of her media seminar.  The seminar, themed, ‘Media and Muslims: Opportunities and Threats 2:0’, is scheduled for Sunday, March 11, 2023z at Ibikunle Lawal College, Parakin, Ile Ife, Osun State.  The Rtd Director, Public Corporation Affairs of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Ustadh AbdurRazaq Adegboyega AbdusSalam (Abu Umar Al-Faruq), will be speaking on the topic ‘Islam and Social Media: Our Duties As Muslims’.  Communication Strategist & Life Coach, Dr. Kamoru Salaudeen will dissect the topic The Business Side Of Public Speaking‘, while the Broadcast Journalist & Media Trainer,  Mr. AbdulHakeem Ishola will be expected to address the topic, ‘Public Speaking: The Do’s and Don’t From the Lens Of Islam.’  The Director of Dpath To Jannah Media Hub, Mr. Sodiq Lawal said in a statement that the second edition of the seminar is aimed at training the participants who are drawn from different Universities in some Southwest states on media reportage and exposing them to opportunities in the media industry.  According to him, The participants, including Muslim students from Obafemi Awolowo University, Osun State University, and the University of Ilorin, among others who grace the event will be awarded certificates of participation. “Media coverage and representations have too often been discriminatory, exclusive, and biased, with many important voices left unheard. The upcoming media seminar attempts to address these issues through ethical and unbiased reporting. ” It also aims to improve the understanding of Muslims and Islam through unbiased media reporting, connecting with Muslims and religious representatives as well as diversifying the medias’ respective views and portrayals. Participating Muslim students will also have the opportunity to get involved in the practical aspect of media. “A panel session will also take place during the seminar where participants will interact and ask media-related questions from the guest speakers,” he added.