…Says currency redesign has destroyed Tinubu’s bullion van plan By Chimezie Godfrey Obviously frustrated by his inability to stop the cashless policy and currency redesign of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) that will curb vote buying and enhance the credibility of next month’s election, the Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, has begun crying over his imminent defeat, says Phrank Shaibu, the Special Assistant, Public Communication to Atiku A statement signed by Shaibu disclosed that Tinubu, while addressing a rented crowd in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, said the currency redesign was targeted at him. Well, the Holy Bible says in Proverbs 28: 1 that “the wicked run when no one is chasing them, but an honest person is as brave as a lion”.   “Even though the CBN policy affects all 18 political parties, Tinubu is the only one frustrated because his plan to deploy bullion vans and bribe poor voters and security agents on the day of election has failed woefully. “Recall that on the eve of the 2019 Presidential election, two cash laden bullion vans were pictured entering Tinubu’s premises located on 26 Bourdillon Road, Ikoyi. Several petitions were written to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) but nothing was done.   “Also frustrated by President Muhammadu Buhari’s unwillingness to attend some of his insipid rallies, Tinubu launched an attack against the President who doubles as the Minister of Petroleum,” he stated. He added,”The frustrated APC candidate stated, “You’re hoarding fuel and hoarding the naira. Still, we will vote, and we will win this election.   “Whether you change the ink of the naira or spend money till you are in debt, things won’t turn out as you hope, we are the ones who will win the election, and our opponents will fail.” Shaibu further stated,”It is funny that Tinubu is just commenting over the fuel scarcity which started in different parts of the country as far back as February 2022. In Lagos, where Tinubu claims to be the landlord, the state has been witnessing fuel queues since last November. It is therefore dubious of Tinubu to try to extricate himself from the failures of his party because elections are 30 days away.   “Like his previous colourless rallies, the discombobulated APC candidate vowed that his supporters would use their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) to “chase them out of power next month”. “Tinubu urgently needs to be on medication since he has forgotten that his party is currently in office. How can the APC defeat the APC?   “Besides, the so-called Lagos godfather, who says he will remove petrol subsidy on his first day in office if he wins, told the people of Ogun State that he will push the price of petrol below N200 per litre. It is obvious that he has not even read his own manifesto. “Tinubu’s paranoia is clearly getting the best of him. He has gone from attacking the leader of his own party to Igbos and northerners all because he believes they are not supporting his failed Presidential ambition.”   Shaibu pointed out that for a man who claimed to have single handedly made Buhari President, it is funny that he is now running from pillar to post all in a bid to save what is left of his failed campaign. “As we stated last week, Nigeria will not recover from a Tinubu Presidency. This son of Baranquilla, who has undisputed ties to drug lords in the United States, cannot be trusted with the leadership of Nigeria. A man, who tacitly admitted to drug trafficking by forfeiting $460,000 to American authorities, cannot be given the keys to Nigeria’s treasury.   “Having seen his imminent defeat at the polls, he is already using the fuel scarcity and naira redesign as excuses. Tinubu should throw in the towel or get ready to be disgraced on February 25, 2023. A word is enough for the wise,” he stated.