Governor Babagana Umara Zulum on Thursday visited Rann, headquarters of Kala-Balge Local Government in the central part of Borno State at which he supervised the distribution of redesigned naira notes to over 12,000 residents.   The Governor’s intervention was to enable residents buy food. The residents have been cut off by flooding, which destroyed farmlands during the rains, and forced residents to only source food stuff from boarder villages between Nigeria and Cameroon.   Rann can only be reached by road through the border areas in Cameroon. This is due to flooded road caused by a dam discharge in Central Africa, which trapped Nigerians in Rann, preventing them from travelling to other parts of Borno and denying them access to their farms which were also flooded.  Zulum flew from Maiduguri to Rann on board a helicopter to coordinate the distribution of the redesigned naira notes to vulnerable men and women most of whom have no source of livelihood.  “Unfortunately this community has been cut off from the rest of Nigeria for the last 7 months, they do not have access to any of the facilities because of the heavy rainfall coupled with the lack of access roads. We are here in Rann to provide some relief materials to about 12,000 households living here” Zulum explained.   Before Zulum’s visit on Thursday, residents lamented that traders were no longer accepting the old naira notes being phased out. … Inspects Hospital, Secretariat Meanwhile, Governor Zulum while in Rann, inspected ongoing public projects which included the Rann General Hospital now fully completed.  Zulum also visited a new council secretariat site at over 70% completion stage and a central Mosque at 70% completion stage.  Transitional Council Chairman of Kala-Balge, Zannah Jabu conducted the Governor around the projects. Governor Zulum travelled in company of the APC’s candidate for Borno central senatorial seat, Barrister Kaka Shehu Lawan, house of reps candidate for Marte, Monguno and Nganzai, Engr. Bukar Talba, majority leader of the Borno State House of Assembly, Dige Mohammed, commissioner for local government, Sugun Mai Mele and some top government officials. Zulum returned to Maiduguri on Thursday to continue other engagements. Photos: Governor Zulum (in black safari) during his humanitarian visit and interaction with residents of Rann in Kala-Balge local government area of Borno State… on Thursday