By Chimezie Godfrey The Department of State Services (DSS) has arrested the mastermind of the recent explosion near the palace of Ohinoyi of Ebira land, in Okene, Kogi state. This was disclosed in a statement signed by Peter Afunanya, the Public Relations Officer, DSS, National Headquarters, Abuja and made available to the press on Wednesday.   Afunanya revealed that the Service arrested Abdulmumin Ibrahim Otaru (aka Abu Mikdad) and one of his associates, Saidu Suleiman on Tuesday, 3rd January, 2023. He stated,”The Department of State Services (DSS) wishes to inform the public that it has arrested the mastermind of the Vehicle-Borne Improvised Explosive Device (VBIED) attack which occurred on 29th December, 2022, near the Palace of the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland in Okene, Kogi State during the visit of the President to commission some projects.  “The Service arrested Abdulmumin Ibrahim OTARU (aka Abu Mikdad) and one of his associates, Saidu SULEIMAN on 3rd January, 2023. OTARU sustained a gunshot injury on his left foot while attempting to escape. He is currently receiving treatment at a health facility.” Afunanya added,”During investigations, it was ascertained that Otaru   was a high commander of Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) and either coordinated or was involved in the following dastardly operations: “The 24th June, 2022 attack on Nigeria Police Area Command, Eika-Ohizenyi, Okehi LGA of Kogi State.  A Police Inspector, Idris MUSA was killed and two (2) AK-47 rifles carted away in that attack.   “The 5th July, 2022 attack on Kuje Medium Security Custodial Centre in Kuje Area Council of the FCT; and “5th August, 2022 attack on West African Ceramics Ltd (WACL) in Ajaokuta LGA, Kogi in which three (3) Indian expatriates were kidnapped.  It would be recalled that five (5) persons including one (1) Indian, two (2) Policemen and two (2) drivers of the company were also killed in the attack. The kidnapped expatriates were released on 31st August, 2022.   “OTARU operated terrorist cells in and around Kogi State. Similarly, he and his gang had staged several kidnap operations in Kogi and Ondo States. Meanwhile, the suspects are in custody and will be prosecuted accordingly.”  DSS Spokesperson reiterated the commitment of the Service to the safety of the nation.   He assured that the Service would work assiduously with stakeholders including sister security agencies to tackle the menace of terrorism and other forms of criminality and threats to national security. He therefore called on citizens to support the DSS and other law enforcement organisations with relevant information and all the necessary cooperation required to achieve a peaceful country.