By Dorcas ElusogbonThe Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja 11,  has confessed Jesus Christ as Lord of lords and most wonderful God that turns shame to celebration. Ooni said this during the Grand-finale of New Year Prayer organised by Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) at Afewonro Park, Enuwa Square, on Saturday, in Ile-Ife.   Oba Ogunwusi, who led different Christian worship songs and praises during the service, clarified that it is a good thing to always praise the Lord Jesus Christ and appreciate Him.. “When I look back, I observe that my life is full of God’s wonders and miracles despite all challenges faced, but today, the Lord gave me victory over them all.   “I sat down here last year with a lot of tribulations and storms of life in which I cannot explain, but to God be the Glory that my shame has turned to celebration. “I observed where I started, hitherto, the Lord has helped me. it is clearly stated to me that the Lord is Alive. Fool is anyone that says there’s no God,” the traditional ruler stated.   He charged Christians to hold firmly unto Jesus Christ, adding “truly, He is the son of God and He is the one that lives with him (Ogunwusi) on the throne. The Ooni said that there was no one who works with God that looses, adding that money was not everything in life.   According to him, sound health, safety, feeding among others were part of God’s goodness. The traditional ruler appealed to officials of the CAN not to wait for God’s commendation, but should strive to serve God wholeheartedly.   Quoting the Bible, Ogunwusi said “for He is the rewarder of those that diligently seek Him. Ooni reiterated his commitment to serve God and humanity throughout the rest of his life as well as always work for the growth and development of Ile-Ife, Osun, Yoruba race and country at large.   He urged all and sundry to always appreciate God and put all their trust in Him in order to receive all their requests in life from Him. Oba Ogunwusi warned youths against allowing politicians to instigate them to violence and other social vices particularly  before, during and after the forthcoming general elections.   In his message at the event, Pastor Mathew Adejumo, the Superintendent for Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Oke Isegun Moore District Coordinating Council (DCC), told the congregation that God still has powers like of old. Adejumo, whose message was titled “Be Still” and his bible verse taken from Mark 4: 35-41, said that God is still able to calm every storm in each individual’s life and in the country.   The superintendent admonished Christians to ensure that they serve God with all their might and power this year for them to enjoy the benefits embedded in God.(NAN)