At first, he appeared to be the most unlikely candidatefor the task. After his fifth attempt at running for Kenya’spresidency, surely Raila Odinga is finished, done. Theonly thing left perhaps was how to update his memoirs.But who needs nuggets from a loser who couldn’t putthem to use himself? These were the thoughts that weighed on our minds aswe thought of inviting former Kenyan Prime Minister andfreshly defeated candidate of the Orange DemocraticMovement, Raila Odinga, to the 14 th  edition of theLEADERSHIP annual conference and awards. It’s also interesting that since he narrowly lost last year’spresidential election to William Ruto who framed thecampaign as an epic battle of “hustler vs. dynasty”,Odinga has received several invitations to speak at majorinternational forums in the US and Europe. There mustbe a lesson or two about his defeat that keeps the worldwanting to hear from his experience.  But the attraction for LEADERSHIP was even more. Onthe eve of Nigeria’s general election, with its attendantanxieties, tensions and concerns that violence could marthe outcome – or worse, upend it altogether – who elseis more qualified to share valuable experience than aman who was a presidential candidate in the Kenyangeneral election in 2007, which claimed over 1,200 livesand another election in 2017 which left at least 37 dead,many more wounded and thousands fleeing theirhomes?  Only last October, former two-term Kenyan Presidentand also contestant in these two elections, UhuruKenyatta, was the guest of the Nigerian government at aministerial performance retreat in Abuja.  Unlike when he came on a state visit eight years ago,Kenyatta made no public statements this time, leaving aheavy cloud of cynicism in some circles that the man whobetrayed Odinga and paved the way for Ruto’s victory,was perhaps delighted to sneak into Abuja, Nigeria’scapital, like a thief in the night. The press couldn’t get Kenyatta to clear the air. So, wethought it would be a good idea to invite Odinga,described as one of the most consequential Kenyan politicians in the last three decades by Professor FemiBadejo in his notable biography, “Raila Odinga: AnEnigma in Kenyan Politics”, to shed some light on thecauldron of Kenyan elections. I’m glad we did. My two previous articles on Kenya afterthe October presidential elections leaned more towardsRuto, because I felt strongly that the Odinga andKenyatta dynasties have run their course and thatperhaps Kenyan politics deserved a breath of fresh air. But inviting Odinga carried its own risks, too. Just oneday before he arrived in Abuja, he held a huge rally inJacaranda, Nairobi, where he announced there would bea series of rallies against Ruto’s government.  Odinga insisted that the government was illegitimate,vowed that he would not be silenced, and likened Ruto’sgovernment to the biblical tax collector, Zacchaeus,notorious for inflicting punitive taxes on the people. Andthen the next day, he got on the plane and headed toAbuja, with a six-member delegation comprising aprofessor and a senator, to speak on “Credible Electionsand an Economy in Transition”.  If the topic sounded just right for Nigeria ahead of anelection foreshadowed by deadly attacks on votinginfrastructure, widespread displacement of populationsas a result of banditry, and economic chaos; it presenteddifferent optics for Nigeria’s diplomatic relations withKenya.  Giving Odinga, the leader of the largest opposition party,a microphone after his Jacaranda rally, was like providinga foreign staging post for attacks on the new governmentin Nairobi, still struggling. It could be seen as lending the“enemy” a hand. But it doesn’t matter. Part of why Africa has experiencedfive unconstitutional changes in government in twoyears, with West Africa as the epicentre, has beenbecause of shambolic management of elections andpolitical transitions, among other things.  The continent must grow beyond the rituals of holdingperiodic elections, which are increasingly trigger pointsfor violent changes in governments. Africa has to find away to make politics work for a far greater number ofcitizens who are currently either induced or indifferentspectators in their own game. A good place to start would be a robust opposition. That is why it made senseto hear Odinga out. And he didn’t disappoint. As we waited for him to join us at the welcome dinner inTranscorp Hilton on Monday night, I wondered what hewas going to say. The Secretary to the Government ofthe Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, was present as wererepresentatives of the Kenyan High Commission, and acrème of professionals and business people.  Just a few days earlier a friend had shared a viral video ofOdinga with me where the former prime minister ribbedhis audiences with a bitter joke about Nigeria. It wasabout a Nigerian minister on a visit to Malaysia, who wastold by his host that 10 percent of the money for the niceroads in Kuala Lumpur had been diverted to build thepalatial house where the Nigerian minister was beinghosted. On the Malays’ return visit, he wanted to know where hisNigerian counterpart got the money to build his ownpalatial house, especially since the roads he had seenwere filled with potholes. The Nigerian minister took hisguest to the window, smiled and said, “100 percent ofwhat was supposed to have been used to build the roadswas used here (pointing to his palace).”   Yet, if you have read Michela Wrong’s “It’s Our Turn toEat”, you might forgive Kenyans for making corruption inNigeria the butt of their jokes. No matter, something toldme that out of courtesy, Odinga, a politician whoprefaces his speeches with jokes and wisecracks, will as amatter of courtesy, spare Nigeria this time.  When the former prime minister and leader of theKenyan Orange Democratic Movement finally showed upin the dinner room without airs, no fuss. He wore asimple blue-and-white long-sleeve kaftan top over awhite pair of trousers and entered the room like theregular Joe.  In my brief comments before he took the podium, Iimprovised his Malaysian joke saying that he would findAbuja’s main roads well paved. I added that while Iwasn’t sure that a kobo of the money used for the roadsfound its way into the palatial hotel, I could assure himthat his host, LEADERSHIP, can account for the cost ofthe dinner we were about to have. He later told guests that the last time he was in Nigeriawas in 2007 as a member of the international observersfor the general elections that year and recounted how a policeman who had flagged down his car insisted that helooked every inch a Nigerian and admonished him forflouting the restriction order. And then, he spoke about the Kenyan election. He saidnew evidence from the server which the Supreme Courthad denied access during the post-election legal dispute,showed that over two million votes which could havegiven him a clear edge over Ruto were suppressed.  “How can anyone live with such injustice?” he asked. Atthat moment I surveyed the room and locked eyes withthe representative of the Kenyan ambassador. His facewas expressionless. Odinga wasn’t done. He said he would not be silencedand that he didn’t think it was too much not just to askfor justice to be done, but for it to be seen to be doneand for the will of the Kenya people to find trueexpression. The old war horse that he is, the next day, the mainconference day, he deployed a tactical manoeuvre. Ofcourse, he expressed concern about more elections andyet less credible outcomes, about state capture ofelection management bodies, and the use of voting machines to rig, Odinga left the heavy, pointed lifting tohis cohort, Akau Mutua, a Kenyan American professor ofLaw based in New York. Speaking off tempore, Mutua hammered the KenyanSupreme Court for obstructing access to vital evidenceand for its complicity in perverting the course of justice.It’s only a matter of time, he said, before theshenanigans would unravel. As Mutua said that the hallerupted in applause and I spotted Odinga smiling.  “So, what are you going to do about the newlydiscovered two million votes”, I asked him later that dayin his hotel. “You wait and see”, he replied. “We’re building amovement that will hold the system to account for itsinjustice. How can there be another election until thismatter is resolved?” At this point, I remembered what his father, JaramogiOginga Odinga, might have said of Kenya: “It’s not yetuhuru!” Ishiekwene is Editor-In-Chief of LEADERSHIP