By Chimezie Godfrey President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the establishment of a Presidential Transition Council, for facilitating and managing the 2023 transition programme. A statement signed by Willie BasseyDirector, Information for Secretary to the Government of the Federation, revealed that members of the committee included:”“Secretary to the Government of the Federation – Chairman; Head of the Civil Service of the Federation; Solicitor-General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice.   “Permanent Secretaries from the following Ministries and Offices:a. Defenceb. Interiorc. Finance, Budget and National Planningd. Foreign Affairse. Information and Culturef. Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA)g. Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairsh. Cabinet Affairs Office, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF). “General Services Office, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF)j. Economic and Political Affairs Office, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF)k. State Housev. National Security Adviservi. Chief of Defence Staffvii. Inspector-General of Policeviii. Director General, National Intelligence Agencyix. Director General, State Security Servicesx. Chief Registrar of the Supreme Court of Nigeria; andxi. Two representatives, to be nominated by the President-elect.”   He added,”The Transition Council will be inaugurated by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation on Tuesday 14th February, 2023 at 12 noon at the Conference Hall of the SGF. “Members are expected to attend the inauguration in person. “Also, the President has signed the Executive Order No. 14 of 2023 on the Facilitation and Management of the Presidential Transitions.   “A key feature of the Presidential Executive Order No. 14 of 2023 is the institutionalization of a legal framework that would enable a seamless transition of power from one Presidential Administration to another which is part of President Buhari’s legacy.”