The apex socio-cultural organization in Kogi East Senatorial District, Uk’Omu Igala Organization, has set up  a 13-man committee made up of eminent Igala and Bassa sons and daughters, to interact with candidates from the zone in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. The committee, chaired by a former Minister of State for Health, Architect Gabriel Aduku, has as members Ustaz Yunus,SAN,  Professor Paul Omaji, Professor Jummai Ogbadu, Dr S.S. Ameh (SAN), and Dr Rekiya M Abaji. Others are Retired Surgeon Commodore Abdullahi, Professor Danladi Amodu Ameh, Bishop Edmund Akanya, Elder David Abutu, and  Mr Peter Dogwo. At its inaugural meeting held in Abuja on Wednesday, February 1, 2023, the chairman, Architect Aduku, told members that the objective of the committee was to communicate the challenges facing Kogi East Senatorial District to all persons who seek election into various offices, to ensure they have a common focus about Kogi East, no matter the  offices they might be elected into. “The legislative and executive arms of government are very important to the development and well-being of the people. Governors, Houses of Assembly members, Senators,  House of Representatives members, and local council chairmen and councilors determine how  resources are allocated, and even the fate of the people. As leaders of Kogi East Senatorial District, we need to court and cultivate a relationship with the potential political leaders to ensure they realize our challenges and work towards tackling them as soon as they assume offices. Architect Aduku listed some of the challenges facing Kogi East to include the lack of social infrastructure, untapped  human and natural resources, unsustainable peasant farming, lack federal government’s presence, weak quality of education, lack of medical facilities at all levels, poverty, and general under-development. He said, “as a committee, we do not lean towards any political party. All contestants belong to us, regardless of their party affiliations. We are a people. All we want to do is to  impress on the candidates the importance of unity of purpose in the development of any society. They must not work at cross-purposes; they must have a common agenda that will lead to the development of Kogi East senatorial district. The committee is scheduled to meet with all candidates into this month’s election on Wednesday, February 15, 2023 in Abuja, in the first leg of the interaction.