By Chimezie Godfrey The immediate past Governor of Ekiti State and President of the Forum of Regions of Africa (FORAF), Dr. Kayode Fayemi has called on Nigerians to vote peacefully on Saturday and to shun activities that may lead to the breakdown of law and order. A statement issued on Fayemi’s behalf by Ahmad Sajoh, the head of the Fayemi Media office, read thus: “I urge all registered voters to come out on Saturday to perform their civic duty in a peaceful and orderly manner devoid of rancor or bitterness.   ‘’voting is an obligation we owe ourselves and our country. It is our responsibility to elect the kind of leaders we want and who reflect our values and wishes for Nigeria. This Saturday, we should perform this duty with a sense of responsibility, patriotism, and love. ‘’I urge security agents to maintain peace and order in a manner that does not breach the citizen’s right to vote. Thankfully, President Muhammadu Buhari has pledged to ensure free, fair, and transparent elections. I know the President will follow through with this promise. I, therefore, urge the neutrality of our security agencies, to maintain law and order and protect the citizens’ rights to vote without fear or intimidation.   ‘’I also wish to counsel Nigerians to be wary of fake news with the goal of spreading misinformation and disinformation at this time. We should all ensure that we get information about the election results only from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and credible news mediums. Even then, we should double-check before circulating any news on social media in order not to unwittingly spread fake news. ‘’Fellow Nigerians, I am aware that the atmosphere is charged and we are all passionate about our preferences for the elections, however, we should not let this passion lead to a breakdown of law and order. We should be aware that, as with all elections, there will be winners and losers and as such, we all cannot win.   ‘’If our preferred choices lose, we should take it with patience and understanding, and if they win, we should celebrate with moderation, mindful of the other parties. While elections may come and go, our country will remain. We will, therefore, require everyone, regardless of political party preferences, to work together to achieve our national goals of peace, progress, and unity. ‘’Finally, I wish our country peaceful and credible elections, reminding all that, regardless of the outcome of the elections, our love for Nigeria should remain constant. “