By Salisu Sani-Idris The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has cautioned security personnel  against violating traffic rules in the nation’s capital.  The Coordinator, Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC), Umar Shuaibu, issued the warning at the inauguration of an intensive traffic enforcement on Airport Road, on Monday in Abuja.  Shuaibu declared that henceforth, anybody that was driving against the traffic would not only be instructed to go back, but would be arrested and the vehicle impounded. The coordinator also warned uniformed personnel to desist from violating  traffic as the enforcement against such nefarious act was not a respecter of rank.  He stated that no vehicle was allowed to park or ply on undesignated areas along the airport road and no passenger should stand and flag a vehicle to pick him or her except in an area designated for such.  Shuaibu, who explained that the exercise was aimed at restoring sanity along airport road, said the exercise would be sustained with the sensitisation of the public and engagement with the transport operators along the busy road. He said: ”There are enough lay-bays along the road, sufficient to serve the public, but what is lacking is discipline, in order to make our environment decent.  ” We engaged the stakeholders, which are transport operators along this road. We called them and we have all agreed that this assignment is important, in order to make sure that sanity is restored. ” Whatever image you see on Abuja Airport road is the image of Nigeria. If the traffic along the road is free, Nigeria’s traffic is free; and if the road is clean, Nigeria is clean.  ” So, we must make sure that it is clean and free always, in order to have a very good image of our country. ” The coordinator said that Airport road was the one that conveys traffic from the North and South along Kaduna-Lokoja expressway. Shuaibu added: ”Therefore, it has multiple roles. That’s why the traffic along this road is heavy. “We are aware that most of these violations are committed by people in uniform. So, no matter your rank, enforcement against the violation is not a respecter of rank. “We will make sure that we show example. If you are a man in uniform, show an example to the people that are not in uniform. So, anybody, no matter how highly placed, must respect our regulations. ” Henceforth, anybody that is making the Airport road unsafe and unclean, is going to be arrested. “From now on, this exercise is going to be continuous, the officers in charge of this enforcement, we count on you. We need your support, in order to make it work.” On his part, Deputy National President, Road Transport Employers Union, Mr Abubakar Sadiq, who described the exercise as a welcome development, said they were  ready to cooperate in any form, to make sure that it was successful. (NAN)