By Salisu Sani-Idris  The FCT Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), says the ongoing search and rescue for persons trapped in the debris of a collapsed three-storey building at 4th Avenue, Gwarimpa, have entered a second day.  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the building, under construction, went down at about 11a.m. on Thursday, trapping an unspecified number of construction workers.  The agency’s Head of Public Affairs, Mrs Nkechi Isa, in a statement on Friday in Abuja, said as of Friday morning, 21 persons were rescued alive, while three others were removed from the rubble fatally injured.  Mrs Isa said that the rescue team comprising FEMA, NEMA, Red Cross, Nigeria Police, NSCDC, FRSC and some construction companies are on the ground combing for victims. She said during a visit to the site of the incident, the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammed Bello, commiserated with the families of the victims and residents of the FCT over the unfortunate incident.  Represented by the Executive Secretary, Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA), Shehu Ahmad, Bello said, “this is coming at a time when we are all trying as a nation to come out of this worrisome situation of building collapse.  “These are issues which the FCT environment was not prominent with, but because of some activities of quackery, this has come into the FCT and the FCT is not too happy with these happenings.” The minister noted that it was the third time such an incident happened at Gwarinpa Estate. He stated that the FCTA would stop at no limit to identify those involved in the unfortunate development. “Preliminary report indicates that the land area where this property was standing doesn’t look well and stabilised. There is the presumption of inferior materials in the construction and workmanship. “To this, the FCTA will take very seriously and engage the agencies involved to find a lasting solution to this type of embarrassment. ” Also, the Director-General, FEMA, Dr Abbas Idriss, commended all the emergency workers and stakeholders involved in the rescue efforts. He said that it was a successful exercise in which both the security and the media had given their best in ensuring the rescue operations went smoothly. According to him, the operation would continue until it reached ground zero to be sure that all the victims were rescued. He also called on the residents of the FCT to report acts of sharpness and compromise, especially on construction sites, to the relevant authorities to save lives and properties. “This report could be done through the emergency toll-free number 112 for a prompt response.” (NAN)