By Salisu Sani-Idris The FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Aliyu, has described the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential candidate, Sen. Bola Tinubu, as the vanguard of women empowerment. Aliyu spoke at a “train the trainers” summit, organised by the Nigerian Women Unite for Tinubu/Shettima, held at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, on Monday.   The minister acknowledged the roles of women in nation building in terms of their numerical strength. She emphasised that with unity of purpose, great candidates and a dynamic party machinery, the odds favour the ruling APC.   “Our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is the vanguard of women empowerment above all other candidates. His support and encouragement to his wife says it all. “We have every confidence that a Bola Tinubu Presidency is the best suited to advance the fortunes of women in this country.   “He would ensure effective participation of women in commanding heights of the national economy, agriculture, manufacturing, hi-tech and commerce. “He has done it in his family, he has done it in Lagos and will do it at the national level. Tinubu/Shettima will make Nigeria secure again. His liberality speaks for itself,” she said.   Aliyu expressed confidence that Tinubu would give attention to the ordinary woman in communities through the promotion of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Similarly, the minister said that Tinubu would implement innovative and impactful safety-net programmes.   “He is set to make women the drivers of our agricultural production,” she said. Aliyu said that the support given to Sen. Oluremi Tinubu was an eloquent demonstration of Asiwaju’s commitment to giving political space to women. Also speaking, Tinubu’s wife, Oluremi, vowed to restore better life for rural women if elected come February 25, 2023.   She further promised the restoration of the defunct family Support Programme, stressing that priority would be given to women and child health, curb maternal/child mortality rates in Nigeria and enhance child nutrition amongst others. (NAN)