Alaba-Olusola Oke Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Bashir Jamoh, has said that there is no other time to unite Nigeria than now.  Jamoh, who was conferred with a honourary chieftaincy title of Baatona of Akure kingdom by Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, said that Nigerians, irrespective of their religious and ethnic affiliations, should come together to rescue the country.  He said that for him, a northerner, to have been honoured with a chieftaincy title in Yoruba land was an indication that Nigeria’s unity was sacrosanct and non-negotiable.  According to him, Nigerians should be good to one another and the society at large in order to achieve a country that everybody desired. The NIMASA director-general, who expressed appreciation for finding him worthy of the honour, promised to contribute to the growth and development of Akure, the Ondo State capital.  He announced scholarship award for five Akure indigenes, adding that he would also facilitate employment opportunities for some indigenes of the state. In his remarks, the traditional ruler described Jamoh as a humble man who should be emulated. He expressed the confidence that Akure would witness tremendous achievements in view of the honour done to the director-general. Aladelusi prayed for God’s guidance for all the honorary chieftaincy title holders, promising that he would continue to crave for greatness of the town and the wellbeing of his subjects. “The conferment of the honorary title is in recognition of the giant strides of Dr Jamoh in impacting lives positively and contributing immensely to the development of the country, coupled with his friendly disposition to Akure kingdom and the monarchy. “It is a well-known fact that Jamoh has distinguished himself in the public service as a patriotic Nigerian with good and enviable track records of unblemished service of over 29 years to the people and the nation,” he said. Also speaking, the Minister of State for Transportation, Prince Ademola Adegoroye, said that what the traditional ruler had done signified peace. Adegoroye, who is an indigene of Akure, commended Aladelusi for expanding the frontier of Akure kingdom. He described Jamoh as a detribalised Nigerian who deserved such honour from the kingdom. (NAN)