By Haruna Salami The Chairman, Senate Committee on the Federal Capital Territory, Senator Smart Adeyemi has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to reconsider his position to address the current naira scarcity within the next seven days. The Senator who is representing Kogi West Senatorial District in the National Assembly stated this while addressing journalists in Abuja. The President had on Friday promised to address the issue of naira scarcity within seven days when he met with the All Progressives Congress governors. But Adeyemi said the current sufferings by the people were becoming unbearable and pleaded with the President to act immediately to avoid further deaths among the people. He exonerated Buhari from the acute naira shortage being experience in the country, insisting that the problems were caused by those he described, “hypocrites on the corridor of power,” As part of the solution to the crises, the Senator urged the President to extend the deadline for the naira swap. “Many of the artisans and small scale business people they have their money at home. As I speak to you I have a record of people who died because they had no.money to buy drugs in the last few days, they died because of complications”, Adeyemi said, “As good as this policy is, we should not allow the poor masses to carry the pains for the atrocity committed by the elite. “I want to tell the President that seven days is too long a time before the change. “I am taking a look at happening across the country and already there are demonstrations, violent reactions. “President Muhammadu Buhari is a statesman who fought for the unity of this country and a man who was doggedly committed to rule this country. “I want to call kn the President that 7 days is too long a period. The pains that Nigerians are experiencing is too much. “Three days is like one year for people to bear. I am saying this because we were elected not appointed, so I have the responsibility to give the feedback of the pains of the people that elected us. “Those elected are the direct contact to the people. In some instances peopleare paying N2500 to get N10, 000 of the old notesnot even there notes. “In this country there are artisans who live by their daily earnings. They can go out what they get in the day is what they use to manage their homes. “These people are dying silently and I want to support all the positions taken by Mallam Nasir El-Rufai and the President should listen. “We  that are speaking out are the friends, we are his children who loves him so that this government should succeed and hand over on May 29th peacefully. “We have contributed so much for the enthronement of democracy and some of us will not allow for democracy to be derailed in any way. “This is a threat to peace and tranquility of the country and that is what is giving room for interpretation, and insinuations that some people around Buhari are behind but rightly so rightly wrong but there are reasons to believe.”